# WGUTermManager
My first mobile application.

F1: Mobile Application Development
Mobile application development is the process to develop a software which can run on mobile devices, such as Phones, Tablets, PDAs, and smart watches. Mobile application development is specific to the hardware and the software of the device for which the application is build. Development of mobile application need to consider special features of mobile devices such as screen size, resolution, storage space, memory, and CPU of the device. Mobile applications also need to be optimized for performance with less power consumption. Screen size of mobile devices varies widely, and developer needs to develop application responsive to multiple screen size. Smaller display screen of mobile devices requires specialized user interface and user experience design. Operation system of the device also plays major roll in building the application. Mobile applications are mainly built for devices running on Android, iOS, or Windows operating system. 
The WGU Term Manager mobile application is developed for Android devices with target API of 29 and minimum API 16.

F2: Description of Challenges
Mobile application development process was completely new to me when I started this project. I got myself familiar with Android studio by reading documents and watching “How to” videos. It took few weeks for me to get good grasp of all the elements of android studio. When I started building my application, I had rough time deciding how to setup the database. Setting up screen layout was another time-consuming task for me. I reviewed google developer docs to find differences and similarities between Room database and SQLite database. I also went through Android developers site and some stack overflow threads. First and foremost difference I learnt that Room is Object Relational Mapping which maps database objects to Java objects in contrast to SQLite where you need lots of code to convert into Java object. I still needed to understand how to incorporate database in my project. For that I found developer.android.com data storage page very resourceful. (https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage )

F3: Solutions to challenges
I learned how to work in Android Studio by following walkthrough videos and creating small applications. I had mostly used Relative Layout during learning process. When I started WGU project, I thought Constraint Layout will provide better performance and I can reduce number of layouts. But because I have practiced more with Relative Layout, ultimately, I decided to go with the one I was comfortable with. The same goes for deciding on the type of data provider. I used SQLite database as I have learned more about this one. I used I knowledge of model-view controller from Software ll course to create elements for user interface, database, and program logic. To setup database, I created a DbHelper class that extends from SQLiteOpenHelper and used its context to reference database for creating and updating database on need by calling getWritableDatabsase() method. This database can be assessed with the object Cursor and query() method is used to get the required data back for review from the database.

F4: What would I do differently
If I happen to do such project again, I would like to learn more about Room Database and incorporate in my project. For what I know about Room database is that it allows easy access to database. Room has three major components. First is Database which contains database holder and works as main access point. Second is Entity which contains tables within the database. And third component is DAO which is used to access the database. I know the concept of Room database, but I can only understand it fully by implementing it into my application. Application development learning process is mainly ‘Try and Learn’ and you need to go through problems to find solutions (sometimes, find better ways) to get preferable results. I would also like to improvise the user interface of the app and show more content with lesser number of activities. I have used empty activity layout for this application. I feel that prebuilt functionality of other layouts, such as basic activity layout or login activity layout can be particularly useful for building specific applications.  I would also include auto-selection features like selecting date from date picker rather than putting date manually.

F5: Emulators
Emulators are software programs that imitates the features of another operating systems. I can be installed in computer and used to test and debug applications which are developed to run on another operating system. Emulators are used to test application in place of actual physical device. Using emulator is more cost effective and easier for unit testing. The downside of using emulator versus device is it puts tremendous load on the processor and makes the machine run super slow. Another problem with emulator is the swipe feature of the device is replaced with click and drag and because of this the testing of user experience can be compromised. The physical device is preferable for application testing and debugging but there are enormous number of mobile devices available in market and acquiring multiple devices to test the application is cost prohibitive.


